README.md, before:

# PondModelBD
Repository for building energy flux model for pond aquaculture in Bangladesh.

Reach out to Drew Resnick (drewr@iri.columbia.edu) for access to input data.


**There are two models under development in this repository, based off previously published research.**  
Please refer to the main runFiles in each model subdirectory for more model specific information.  

1. [**Béchet model**](https://pubs.acs.org/doi/abs/10.1021/es1040706?casa_token=ESVwMRuKWPcAAAAA:HW2Sep8goMov3i3losRrXzoIGboixMLpDiK4P8XxgKxK1asz4I_xuzJ0tKGTFrIVi4oJjamJCc3QAA)  
    - Required input hourly csv data of:  
        1. Temperature at 2m (C)  
        2. Temperature at 2m (K)  
        3. Relative humidity at 2m (%)  
        4. Wind Speed at 2m (m/s)  
        5. Total direct and diffuse solar irradiance (W/m2)  
        6. Year (yyyy)  
        7. Month (mm)  
        8. Day (day of year, 1-365)  
        9. Day count (total number of days of dataset, 1-n)  
    - Required realtime daily measured data of:  
        1. Day count (total number of days of dataset, 1-n)  
        2. Date (dd/mm/yyyy)  
        3. Morning/minimum, afternoon/maximum, average air temperature (C)  
        4. Morning/minimum, afternoon/maximum, average water temperature (C)  
        
    The Béchet model also has an associated diagnostics subdirectory which gives overview plots of individual heat fluxes for each model element.  
    The structure of this subdirectory follows the main model subdirectories shown below.  

2. [**Gao&Merrick model**](https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/Simulation-of-temperature-and-salinity-in-a-fully-Gao-Merrick/e062ad4f52f4eed06c57285d871e8b8f2257b57d)  
    - Required input daily csv data of:  
        1. Temperature at 2m (C)  
        2. Temperature at 2m (K)  
        3. Relative humidity at 2m (%)  
        4. Wind Speed at 2m (m/s)  
        5. Total direct and diffuse solar irradiance (W/m2)  
        6. Year (yyyy)  
        7. Month (mm)  
        8. Day (day of year, 1-365)  
    - Required realtime daily measured data of:  
        1. Date (dd/mm/yyyy)  
        2. Morning/minimum, afternoon/maximum, average water temperature (C)  



#### Subdirectories structure  
The file structure for each model is as follows:  
    1. model_config.ini : Configuration file where you input runtime information to read into the model.  
        - make sure to read through the configuration file to understand how to change inputs to fit 
          your model run and data correctly.  
    2. model_runFile.py : Main runtime file that runs the model.  
    3. modelVars.py : Variables file which reads in variables from configuration file.  
    4. modelFuncs.py : Functions file which includes all the model and plotting functions.  



#### Python packages needed for runtime  
> import numpy as np  
> import datetime as dt  
> import math  
> import matplotlib.pyplot as plt  
> import pandas as pd  



#### To run a model  
1. Update config file to have match your input/out directory and data structures.
3. Have packages indicated above installed.
4. Run the runFile file for the associated model you want to use.
    - Make sure you are inside the directory where the model files are located, 
      otherwise your terminal will not be able to find the functions and variables files.
5. View outputs in your output subdirectory, if saveFile = y 
    - If saveFile = n, you will only be able to view the associated output plots for the model run in your terminal.  



#### Model citations  
1. Béchet et al (2011). Universal Temperature Model for Shallow Algal Ponds Provides Improved Accuracy. *Environ. Sci. Technol.* 45(8): pp 3702-3709.  
2. Gao, Merrick (1996). Simulation of temperature and salinity in a full mixed pond. *Environmental Software*. 11: pp 173-178.  



#### Model collaborators emails  
[Sanketa Kadam](kadamsanketa18@gmail.com)  
[Quentin Béchet](quentin.bechet@veolia.com)  
[Walter Baethgen](baethgen@iri.columbia.edu)

Commit message:

Add comment about climatological versus weather

README.md, after:

# PondModelBD
Repository for building energy flux model for pond aquaculture in Bangladesh.  
Each model has the option to run on weather datasets (daily or hourly, dependent on the model) or on climatological datasets.

Reach out to Drew Resnick (drewr@iri.columbia.edu) for access to input data.


**There are two models under development in this repository, based off previously published research.**  
Please refer to the main runFiles in each model subdirectory for more model specific information.  

1. [**Béchet model**](https://pubs.acs.org/doi/abs/10.1021/es1040706?casa_token=ESVwMRuKWPcAAAAA:HW2Sep8goMov3i3losRrXzoIGboixMLpDiK4P8XxgKxK1asz4I_xuzJ0tKGTFrIVi4oJjamJCc3QAA)  
    - Required input hourly csv data of:  
        1. Temperature at 2m (C)  
        2. Temperature at 2m (K)  
        3. Relative humidity at 2m (%)  
        4. Wind Speed at 2m (m/s)  
        5. Total direct and diffuse solar irradiance (W/m2)  
        6. Year (yyyy)  
        7. Month (mm)  
        8. Day (day of year, 1-365)  
        9. Day count (total number of days of dataset, 1-n)  
    - Required realtime daily measured data of:  
        1. Day count (total number of days of dataset, 1-n)  
        2. Date (dd/mm/yyyy)  
        3. Morning/minimum, afternoon/maximum, average air temperature (C)  
        4. Morning/minimum, afternoon/maximum, average water temperature (C)  
        
    The Béchet model also has an associated diagnostics subdirectory which gives overview plots of individual heat fluxes for each model element.  
    The structure of this subdirectory follows the main model subdirectories shown below.  

2. [**Gao&Merrick model**](https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/Simulation-of-temperature-and-salinity-in-a-fully-Gao-Merrick/e062ad4f52f4eed06c57285d871e8b8f2257b57d)  
    - Required input daily csv data of:  
        1. Temperature at 2m (C)  
        2. Temperature at 2m (K)  
        3. Relative humidity at 2m (%)  
        4. Wind Speed at 2m (m/s)  
        5. Total direct and diffuse solar irradiance (W/m2)  
        6. Year (yyyy)  
        7. Month (mm)  
        8. Day (day of year, 1-365)  
    - Required realtime daily measured data of:  
        1. Date (dd/mm/yyyy)  
        2. Morning/minimum, afternoon/maximum, average water temperature (C)  



#### Subdirectories structure  
The file structure for each model is as follows:  
    1. model_config.ini : Configuration file where you input runtime information to read into the model.  
        - make sure to read through the configuration file to understand how to change inputs to fit 
          your model run and data correctly.  
    2. model_runFile.py : Main runtime file that runs the model.  
    3. modelVars.py : Variables file which reads in variables from configuration file.  
    4. modelFuncs.py : Functions file which includes all the model and plotting functions.  
There is an additional python file `climatologyDS_setup.py` which can be used to make climatology datasets if you wish to run the model on climatology data.


#### Python packages needed for runtime  
> import numpy as np  
> import datetime as dt  
> import math  
> import matplotlib.pyplot as plt  
> import pandas as pd  



#### To run a model  
1. Update config file to have match your input/out directory and data structures.
3. Have packages indicated above installed.
4. Run the runFile file for the associated model you want to use.
    - Make sure you are inside the directory where the model files are located, 
      otherwise your terminal will not be able to find the functions and variables files.
5. View outputs in your output subdirectory, if saveFile = y 
    - If saveFile = n, you will only be able to view the associated output plots for the model run in your terminal.  



#### Model citations  
1. Béchet et al (2011). Universal Temperature Model for Shallow Algal Ponds Provides Improved Accuracy. *Environ. Sci. Technol.* 45(8): pp 3702-3709.  
2. Gao, Merrick (1996). Simulation of temperature and salinity in a full mixed pond. *Environmental Software*. 11: pp 173-178.  



#### Model collaborators emails  
[Sanketa Kadam](kadamsanketa18@gmail.com)  
[Quentin Béchet](quentin.bechet@veolia.com)  
[Walter Baethgen](baethgen@iri.columbia.edu)
